Authentication in apps is
typically done using OAuth.
OAuth 2.0, specifically.
And there are a ton of
implementation of this.
You can roll your own with
something like Node Passport.
A lot of social services, like GitHub and
a bunch of other services,
have an OAuth 2.0 implementation
that you can use for logging in.
And then there are a lot
of providers like Okta and
Auth0, and Amazon has Cognito.
There are a lot of way for
you to manage this.
But since we've been rolling with Netlify,
we can just use Netlify's built-in
identity, because they've made it,
again, nice and straightforward.
So we don't have to think really
hard about making it work.
So the way that we're gonna
do that is we're gonna
install an identity widget
that is just provided for us.
And we do that by getting, We're gonna,
yarn add react-netlify-identity-widget.
And then we're gonna get
react-netlify-identity.
And these are React wrappers
around Netlify Identity, so
that we don't have to write
a bunch of OAuth code.
Because, again,
we're here to build features.
We're not here to reinvent wheels.
So this stuff has already been done for
us, so we may as well use it.
And then there are a couple
dependencies that we need.
So under the hood,
this uses Reach UI's dialogue box,
Reach UI's tabs, and
the visually-hidden accessibility helper.
So we can install these.
And once these are installed,
we're gonna start up netlify dev again, so
that we can see our work as we go.
There we go.
So to make this actually go,
to make this do the things that we want,
we are going to, first, make sure
that we have access to the whole,
there we go, that we have access
to the whole identity context.
And context is just a way in
React apps to make sure that
something is available globally.
You could, in vanilla JavaScript, maybe
you would attach this to global state, or
in other frameworks they've got
ways to make things available.
It's just putting it into the state
in a way that your app can access.
So I'm going to import
the IdentityContextProvider
from react-netlify-identity-widget.
Make that wrap.
And then I'm gonna use it by just putting,
This whole thing around our app.
So we use that IdentityContextProvider.
And then the thing that we have to do to
make this fully function is we need to
make it point to a working Netlify
site that has Identity enabled.
So we're gonna have to deploy
this app to get it running.
So let's pick a name for it.
I'm gonna call it https,
we'll say fem-jamstack.
Or, sorry,
we'll call this jamstack-intro-, auth.
And then it's gonna be at Netlify,
so we'll save that.
And then I'm just gonna go ahead and
create a new repo.
So we're gonna be using
the hub tools again.
I'm gonna do git init
to get us a repo here.
And I'm going to, git create.
And we are gonna call
this jamstack-intro-auth.
Okay, and we can check the status.
Okay, that looks right.
I'm going to add everything,
git commit, good.
And then I can push this.
I'm gonna set the origin, so I can just
write git push instead of having to write
git push origin master every time.
And then we want this
to be a Netlify site.
So I've already got the Netlify CLI
installed from earlier, so
I'm gonna run netlify init.
We're gonna create and configure a new
site, put it into my personal stuff,
jamstack-intro-auth.
Okay, that's created.
Our gatsby build command is yarn build.
It's gonna deploy the public directory,
Okay,
and then I have a command here
to actually see what's going on.
So I'm just gonna run, netlify open.
And that opens up the browser for
me, it takes me right in.
And I wanna check here to make sure that
we actually defined that build command.
We didn't, so
that's going to get us in trouble.
So build is gonna be gatsby build.
And I'll just commit that change.
Call it add build command.
Push it up, and what we'll see is that
this will immediately pick up that change.
And let's go back and
just cancel this other one, so
that it doesn't,
You're done already, all right.
So this one's gonna build, and it should
actually find our Gatsby command.
And we've already set up the redirects,
we've already set up
the client-side routing.
So when this ships,
it actually should be functioning,
we should be able to click
around our dashboard.
Nothing will be authenticated yet,
but that's okay.
We haven't gotten there.
And yeah, this just kind of, again, points
to how much I like the jamstack workflow.
It's like, okay,
if I had to stand up a server so
that I could make sure that something
was accessible and then add some kind
of a text key to the domain name so
that I could verify my domain.
Which, I don't know if you've
ever done that for other services
where you have to validate ownership of
a domain first, but it's such a pain.
So being able to just quickly say,
here, use this.
It's really really, nice.
And here, momentarily, here we go.
We're running our gatsby build.